---
title: Hp P1102
author: Christian Külker
date: 2023-04-25
version: 0.1.0
locale: en_US
lang: en
type: doc
disclaimer: True
toc: True
categories:
- Printing
commands:
- aptitude
tags:
- Hp-P1102
description: Hp-P1102

---

The HP P1102 is a small and older desktop printer for office use. While the
footprint is small, it was one of the first models that did not work out of the
box when it was new. At least for me. When attached to a new Debian 8-11 system
on MATE, Gnome or XFCE, a device discovery would automatically add the printer.
On Debian 9, I noticed that if the device was turned on and off with the
button, the automatic would add a second one. And when trying to use it, it
would print to nirvana if a proprietary binary blob from HP was not installed.
This could be mitigated by installing the proprietary blob from HP and the HP
print library software, which gives additional information about the printer,
but seems to be implemented rather poorly, as it has bugs and crashes.
Originally I thought the HP P1102 was called a "winprinter" or "GDI printer"
and would not print with proprietary blob.

Yesterday, out of frustration, I searched the Internet and found that there is
indeed an open source driver for the P1102 called `foo2zjs`.

## Installation

```bash
aptitude install printer-driver-foo2zjs printer-driver-foo2zjs-common psutils
```

The `psutils` is only needed for `n-up` printing.

## Configuration

After installation, the configuration can be done using the Desktop Printer
tool, which can be found in the "Settings" section.

This would be the values that the process gave and the serial will probably be
different for other printers.

~~~
Device URI: usb://HP/LaserJet%20Professional%20P1102?serial=000000000Q90JHE1PQ1
Make and Model: HP LaserJet Pro P1102 Foomatic/foo2zjs-z2 (recommended)
~~~

## History

| Version | Date       | Notes                                                |
| ------- | ---------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| 0.1.0   | 2023-04-25 | Initial release                                      |

